# Introducing TrueAutomation.io

## What is TrueAutomation.io

[TrueAutomation.io](https://trueautomation.io/) is a service for testing automation professionals that solves routine problems related to locators and thus makes automation process faster, easier, more reliable and with a lower learning curve comparing to other solutions.

TrueAutomation.io is a combination of client + visual element picker for faster tests creation and maintenance + cloud (or on-premises) account for keeping track of your projects, smart locators and sharing them within your team.

### TrueAutomation.io:
- reduces time needed to find and create a proper locator
- speeds up test creation
- minimizes maintenance
- in cases when maintenance is still needed - it takes seconds per locator, not minutes
- allows to cover websites and web applications written on technologies that generate class names and IDs on the go (Vaadin, GWT, React, etc)

## What’s so special about TrueAutomation.io

TrueAutomation substitutes regular locator with unique element footprint that is generated by built-in AI engine.
<br>This unique footprint looks like a regular locator, works like a regular locator but is totally different inside - we call it a `smart locator`. Basically it is an alias with a human-readable name for a set of various unique attributes of an element. That’s why, even when the page changes dramatically, TrueAutomation still finds the required element. Once the tested webpage changes,  regular locators used in test code often become invalid and there is no way to find an element, but in TrueAutomation we are looking at multiple values together and  thats’s why elements are still found.

## In what cases TrueAutomation.io is a good fit:

**Case 1. You need to set up testing automation on a project, written on Vaadin or GWT.**

If you use regular tools, it will be a very complicated and challenging task. As we all know, e.g. in Vaadin, ID of an element changes in real time, so there is no way to build a reliable locator - which means there will be no way to reliably automate tests.

However…

If you use [TrueAutomation.io](https://trueautomation.io/) - it will take you literally 1 click on the element to add it’s ‘smart locator’ to you test code. And this element will still be found every time again and again.

**Case 2. You have tests automated, however they require maintenance every time you have a new release.**

Based on the info we’ve collected,  some teams spend up to 40% of their time on maintenance. If you use regular technologies, you will need to go to the website, find the element that should be used in your test, inspect it, find something you could tie to and add that unreadable value to your test code. So much hassle with no guarantee that it will not break after the next release.

If you use [TrueAutomation.io](https://trueautomation.io/) - you would hardly ever need to maintain test. But just in case there is such a  rare situation it will take you literally 1 click on the element to update it’s ‘smart locator’ in your test code.
